---
title: Digital Bad Faith
author: kinlane
categories:
  - Labor
  - Work
  - Career
  - Identity
  - 
---
Tobias did not know who he was. It wasn't just that he was a 32 year old male with no partner or direction. There is always uncertainty in youth, especially for young men who are lost. Tobias unknown was digitally induced, translating from the role as Starbucks barista for years, to a more online crated template of who he should be, or simply digital bad faith.

Through his 20s, Tobias' identity was very much wrapped up in being a barista at Starbucks. He was brown, handsome, and it fit with his simple life. It actually worked, but the system made sure that by his 30s he was already planning a transition. He was targeted with coding bootcamps, until he succumbed and pursued a career shift to beign a junior programmer. By his 30th birthday, he was working remotely full time for a digital coupon company, and spending upwards of 60+ hour a week working.

It isn't that Tobias never had dreams. He did. Back in high school. Working a Starbucks for almost a full decade ground that out of him, and now being a software engineer, he just saw himself as the cog in the wheel the coupon company needed. Everything else was just gaming. His job paid his bills, kept him fed, and supported his gaming habit. He didn't need much else. He was an engineer in a digital world, and had given into the reality that he was a programmer--that is who he was. 
---

As bad faith, Sartre describes one's self-deception about the human reality. It can take two forms, the first one is making oneself falsely believe not to be what one actually is. The second one is conceiving oneself as an object (e.g. being identical to a job) and thereby denying freedom.

This essentially means that in being a waiter, grocer, etc., one must believe that their social role is equivalent to their human existence. Living a life defined by one's occupation, social, racial, or economic class, is the very essence of "bad faith", the condition in which people cannot transcend their situations in order to realize what they must be (human) and what they are not (waiter, grocer, etc.). 

It is also essential for an existent to understand that negation allows the self to enter what Sartre calls the "great human stream". The great human stream arises from a singular realization that nothingness is a state of mind in which we can become anything, in reference to our situation, that we desire.